# Installing Spinnaker for GCP on a Continous Integration Server

Spinnaker for GCP supports installation through a Continous Integration Server. A CI server can be used to conduct the initial installation and to apply updates when the Spinnaker for GCP properties file changes. Solutions for Google Cloud Build and Jenkins are detailed below.

## Google Cloud Build

### Shared VPC

Please note, that using Cloud Build to install Spinnaker for GCP with a Shared VPC host project is currently unsupported. For Shared VPC support, conduct the [setup](https://cloud.google.com/docs/ci-cd/spinnaker/spinnaker-for-gcp) in Cloud Shell.

### Service account

Google Cloud Build has a default service account that can be located in the settings page of the Cloud Build UI. The Cloud Build service account must be configured with the following roles to install Spinnaker for GCP:

- Cloud Functions Developer - roles/cloudfunctions.developer
- Compute Network Viewer - roles/compute.networkViewer
- Kubernetes Engine Admin - roles/container.developer 
- Create Service Accounts - roles/iam.serviceAccountCreator
- Pub/Sub Editor - roles/pubsub.editor
- Cloud Memorystore Redis Admin - roles/redis.admin
- Service Usage Admin - roles/serviceusage.serviceUsageAdmin
- Source Repository Administrator - roles/source.admin
- Storage Admin - roles/storage.admin
- Project IAM Admin - roles/resourcemanager.projectIamAdmin
- Service Account User - roles/iam.serviceAccountUser

These roles can be enabled through the IAM UI or with [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/projects/add-iam-policy-binding).

### Properties file

In order to install Spinnaker for GCP, you must provide the installation script with a properties file. This properties file can be generated by executing [setup_properties.sh](scripts/install/setup_properties.sh). Once you have a properties file, it must be provided to the installation script during the execution of the Cloud Build job.

### Submitting a Build

Cloud Builds can be trigged using [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/cloud-build/docs/running-builds/start-build-manually), [build triggers](https://cloud.google.com/cloud-build/docs/running-builds/automate-builds), or [GitHub app triggers](https://cloud.google.com/cloud-build/docs/create-github-app-triggers). This repository provides the necessary files for installing Spinnaker for GCP with a gcloud triggered build. Follow these steps to start a build:

1. Create a new directory. The contents of this directory will be submitted to Cloud Build.
2. Place the generated properties file into the directory.
3. Copy the [cloudbuild.yaml](ci/cloudbuild.yaml) file into the directory and edit the `user.name` and `user.email` used in the git configuration steps.

```yaml
  - name: gcr.io/cloud-builders/git
    args: ['config', '--global', 'user.name', '<example-user>']
  - name: gcr.io/cloud-builders/git
    args: ['config', '--global', 'user.email', '<example-user@example.com>']
```

4. Copy the [Dockerfile](ci/Dockerfile) and [install.bash](ci/install.bash) file into the directory.
5. Submit the build to Cloud Build: `gcloud builds submit --timeout "25m"  --config cloudbuild.yaml .`

Cloud Build will begin executing the job and installing Spinnaker for GCP. Changes to the properties file can be applied by re-running the job. Additional instructions for how to access or manage the deployed Spinnaker instance are available [here](https://cloud.google.com/docs/ci-cd/spinnaker/spinnaker-for-gcp#access_spinnaker).


## Jenkins

Installing Spinnaker for GCP can be automated with Jenkins. The Jenkins agent executing the job must be installed on a Unix-like operating system. 

The following section assumes the user has an existing Jenkins server. If not, consider one of the [Jenkins solutions on Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/jenkins/).

### Jenkins on GCP

If your Jenkins server is running on GCP, follow [best practices](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances#best_practices) for managing its service account. Your Jenkins server must have full access to all Google Cloud APIs to successfully install Spinnaker for GCP.

Please note, that using Jenkins to install Spinnaker for GCP with a Shared VPC host project is currently unsupported. For Shared VPC support, conduct the [setup](https://cloud.google.com/docs/ci-cd/spinnaker/spinnaker-for-gcp) in Cloud Shell.

### Install Dependencies

There are several dependencies that must be installed to the Jenkins server before it can be used to install Spinnaker for GCP.

#### Google Cloud SDK

The Google Cloud SDK is required to provision GCP resources. Install a [versioned archive](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/downloads-versioned-archives) to the Jenkins server.

#### Git

Git is required for backing up and restoring the Spinnaker for GCP configuration. Install git on the Jenkins server by running `sudo apt-get install git-all`

#### Kubectl

Kubectl is required to manage the cluster Spinnaker for GCP will be installed on. Install kubectl to the Jenkins server by running `sudo apt-get install kubectl`

#### Jq

Jq is required for processing JSON. Install jq to the Jenkins server by running `sudo apt-get install jq`

#### AnsiColor Plugin

The [AnsiColor Jenkins Plugin](https://plugins.jenkins.io/ansicolor) is required for properly rendering stdout while installing Spinnaker for GCP. Once the plugin has been installed, enable `Color ANSI Console Output` in the build configuration and set the `ANSI color map` to `xterm`.

### Service account

The Jenkins server must be configured with a GCP service account with the following roles:

- Cloud Functions Developer - roles/cloudfunctions.developer
- Compute Network Viewer - roles/compute.networkViewer
- Kubernetes Engine Admin - roles/container.developer 
- Create Service Accounts - roles/iam.serviceAccountCreator
- Pub/Sub Editor - roles/pubsub.editor
- Cloud Memorystore Redis Admin - roles/redis.admin
- Service Usage Admin - roles/serviceusage.serviceUsageAdmin
- Source Repository Administrator - roles/source.admin
- Storage Admin - roles/storage.admin
- Project IAM Admin - roles/resourcemanager.projectIamAdmin
- Service Account User - roles/iam.serviceAccountUser

These roles can be enabled through the IAM UI or with [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/projects/add-iam-policy-binding).

### Properties file

In order to install Spinnaker for GCP, you must provide the installation script with a properties file. This properties file can be generated by executing [setup_properties.sh](scripts/install/setup_properties.sh). Once you have a properties file, it must be provided to the installation script during the execution of the Jenkins job.

#### Jenkins Job Configuration

Once the aforementioned dependencies have been fulfilled, follow the below steps to configure a job for installing Spinnaker for GCP. 

1. Create a `New Item` from the Jenkins menu and select a `Freestyle project`. 
2. From the configuration screen, enable `Color ANSI Console Output` and set the `ANSI color map` to `xterm`.
3. Add an `Execute Shell` build step.
4. Configure the build step to retrieve and execute the `setup.sh` script.

```shell
#!/usr/bin/env bash

set -e

git clone https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/spinnaker-for-gcp.git
git config --global user.name "jenkins-user"
git config --global user.email "jenkins-user@example.com"

REPO_PATH=$WORKSPACE PROPERTIES_FILE=$PROPERTIES CI=true $WORKSPACE/spinnaker-for-gcp/scripts/install/setup.sh
```

In the above example, the git `user.name` and `user.email` are configured prior to running `setup.sh`. This step is required for `setup.sh` to run successfully. Git operations can also be managed using the [Jenkins Git plugin](https://plugins.jenkins.io/git).

`setup.sh` requires several variables to be passed in:

- `REPO_PATH`: The absolute path for the Jenkins workspace. Jenkins makes this available via `$WORKSPACE`.
- `PROPERTIES_FILE`: This is the absolute path to the your generated Spinnaker for GCP properties file.
- `CI`: This must be set to `true` when running `setup.sh` outside of Cloud Shell.

Once configured, execute the job to install Spinnaker for GCP. Changes to the properties file can be applied by re-running the job. Additional instructions for how to access or manage the deployed Spinnaker instance are available [here](https://cloud.google.com/docs/ci-cd/spinnaker/spinnaker-for-gcp#access_spinnaker).
